DOCS-12083-mqtt-publish-receive-EDITORIAL-kt (#1625)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: mqtt3/1.0/modules/ROOT/edits/mqtt3-connector-publish-receive.adoc

= Listen and Publish Messages with MQTT Connector

In these examples, you configure the Anypoint Connector for MQTT (MQTT Connector) *On New Message* source and the *Publish* operation to listen and publish messages to a specific topic.

== Create a Mule App to Listen and Publish Messages

> In the following example, you configure the *On New Message* source and the *Publish* operation to listen and publish messages to a specific topics.

Reviewer: "to a specific topic" or "to specific topics"

image::mqtt3-example-1.png[MQTT Listen and Publish example in Studio canvas]

=== Create a Listener Flow

In the first part of the example, create a flow with an *On New Message* source that triggers an event for incoming messages on topics matching the filter `topic/quotes/#`, and add a *Logger* component that logs the received message:

. In Studio, in the *Mule Palette* view, select *MQTT3 > On New Message*.
. Drag the *On New Message* source to the Studio canvas.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the source in the app.

> . In the *MQTT3 Config* window, for *Connection* select *MQTT3 URL Connection*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *MQTT3 Config* window, for *Connection*, select *MQTT3 URL Connection*.
```

. For *Client id generator*, select *Client id custom expression generator*.
. Set the following fields:
+
* *Client ID*: `crowley123`
* *Username*: `mosquitto`
* *Password*: `mosquitto`
* *URL*: `tcp://0.0.0.0:1883`
[start=8]
. Click the *LWT* tab.
. Set the following fields:
+
* *Topic*: `topic/lwt`
* *Body*: `This is the LWT message`
* *Is retained*: *True*
[start=10]
. Click *OK*.
. In the *On New Message* configuration screen, set *Topics* to *Edit inline*.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to add a new topic.

> . In *Topic filter* set `topic/quotes/#`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Topic filter*, set `topic/quotes/#`.
```

. Click *OK*.
. Drag a *Logger* component to the right of the *On New Message* source.
. Set *Message* to `Received message '#[payload]' with at topic #[attributes.topic] with qos #[attributes.qos]`.

=== Create a Publisher Flow

> For the second part of the example, create a flow with a *Publish* operation that publishes messages to the topic `topic/quotes/shakespeare` and triggers an event in the `listener-flow`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the second part of the example, create a flow with a *Publish* operation that publishes messages to the topic `topic/quotes/shakespeare` and triggers an event in `listener-flow`:
```

. In Studio, drag an HTTP *Listener* source below the first `listener-flow`.
. Set *Path* to `publish/message`.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the source in the app.
. Set *Host* to `0.0.0.0` and *Port* to `8081`.
. Click *OK*.
. Drag an MQTT3 *Publisher* operation next to the HTTP *Listener* source.

> . For *Connector configuration*, select the `MQTT3_Config_1` configuration created in the `listener-flow`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. For *Connector configuration*, select the `MQTT3_Config_1` configuration created in `listener-flow`.
```

. Set the following fields:
+
* *Topic*: `topic/quotes/shakespeare`
* *Message*: `"Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown"`
[start=10]
. Drag a *Set Payload* component to the right of the *Publish* operation.
. Set *Value* to `SUCCESSFULLY PUBLISHED MESSAGE!`.
. Save and run your Mule application.
. To publish the message, send a request to the HTTP endpoint using the following curl command: +

>  `curl -v --request GET localhost:8081/publish/message`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To publish the message, send a request to the HTTP endpoint using the curl command `curl -v --request GET localhost:8081/publish/message`.
```

	            <mqtt3:client-id-custom-expression-generator clientId="crowley123" />
	        </mqtt3:client-id-generator>
			<mqtt3:last-will-and-testament topic="topic/lwt" body="This is the LWT message" isRetained="true" />
		</mqtt3:connection>
	</mqtt3:config>
	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" >
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<flow name="listener-flow" >
		<mqtt3:listener doc:name="On New Message" config-ref="MQTT3_Config1">
			<mqtt3:topics >
				<mqtt3:topic topicFilter="topic/quotes/#" />
			</mqtt3:topics>
		</mqtt3:listener>
		<logger level="INFO" message="Received message '#[payload]' with at topic #[attributes.topic] with qos #[attributes.qos]" />
	</flow>
	<flow name="publisher-flow" >
		<http:listener config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="publish/message"/>
		<mqtt3:publish config-ref="MQTT3_Config1" topic="topic/quotes/shakespeare">
			<mqtt3:message ><![CDATA[#["Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown"]]]></mqtt3:message>
		</mqtt3:publish>
		<set-payload value="SUCCESSFULLY PUBLISHED MESSAGE!" />
	</flow>
</mule>
----

== Create a Mule App and Subscribe to a LWT Message Topic

> In the following example, you use the previous listener flow and create a second listener flow subscribed to the same LWT message topic as the first flow. If the Mule app crashes and the first listener flow gets disconnected, the MQTT broker sends the LWT message to the configured topic and retains the message. When the Mule app restarts, the second listener flow listens for the retained LWT message and logs it.

Reviewer: Instead of "previous," consider naming the topic set that contains that flow: == Create a Mule App to Listen and Publish Messages

Reviewer: But I am confused: we say "use the previous listener flow and create a second listener flow," followed by a topic for creating the FIRST listener flow...which is the same as the PREVIOUS listener flow? Why mention "previous" if the user is just going to re-create the first flow? Should this really be...:
```suggestion
In the following example, you create two listener flows subscribed to the same LWT message topic. If the Mule app crashes and the first listener flow is disconnected, the MQTT broker sends the LWT message to the configured topic and retains the message. When the Mule app restarts, the second listener flow listens for the retained LWT message and logs it.
```

image::mqtt3-example-2.png[MQTT Listener flows example in Studio canvas]

=== Create the First Listener Flow

In the first part of the example, create a flow with an *On New Message* source that triggers an event for incoming messages on topics matching the filter `topic/quotes/#`, and add a *Logger* component that logs the received message:

. In Studio, in the *Mule Palette* view, select *MQTT3 > On New Message*.
. Drag the *On New Message* source to the Studio canvas.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the source in the app.

> . In the *MQTT3 Config* window, for *Connection* select *MQTT3 URL Connection*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *MQTT3 Config* window, for *Connection*, select *MQTT3 URL Connection*.
```

. For *Client id generator*, select *Client id custom expression generator*.
. Set the following fields:
+
* *Client ID*: `crowley123`
* *Username*: `mosquitto`
* *Password*: `mosquitto`
* *URL*: `tcp://0.0.0.0:1883`
[start=8]
. Click the *LWT* tab.
. Set the following fields:
+
* *Topic*: `topic/lwt`
* *Body*: `This is the LWT message`
* *Is retained*: *True*
[start=10]
. Click *OK*.
. In the *On New Message* configuration screen, set *Topics* to *Edit inline*.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to add a new topic.

> . In *Topic filter* set `topic/quotes/#`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Topic filter*, set `topic/quotes/#`.
```

. Click *OK*.
. Drag a *Logger* component to the right of the *On New Message* source.
. Set *Message* to `Received message '#[payload]' with at topic #[attributes.topic] with qos #[attributes.qos]`.

=== Create the Second Listener Flow

> For the second part of the example, create a second listener flow by adding another *On New Message* source  that subscribes to the topic `topic/lwt`, and add a *Logger* component that logs the received message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the second part of the example, create a second listener flow by adding another *On New Message* source that subscribes to the topic `topic/lwt`, and add a *Logger* component that logs the received message:
```

. In Studio, drag another *On New Message* source below the first `listener-flow`.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the source in the app.

> . In the *MQTT3 Config* window, for *Connection* select *MQTT3 URL Connection*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *MQTT3 Config* window, for *Connection*, select *MQTT3 URL Connection*.
```

. For *Client id generator*, select *Client id random suffix generator*.
. Set the following fields:
+
* *Client ID*: `azfell123`
* *Username*: `mosquitto`
* *Password*: `mosquitto`
* *URL*: `tcp://0.0.0.0:1884`
[start=8]
. Click *OK*.
. In the *On New Message* configuration screen, set *Topics* to *Edit inline*.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to add a new topic.

> . In *Topic filter* set `topic/lwt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Topic filter*, set `topic/lwt`.
```

. Click *OK*.
. Drag a *Logger* component to the right of the *On New Message* source.
. Set *Message* to `Received message '#[payload]' with at topic #[attributes.topic] with qos #[attributes.qos]`.
. Save and run the Mule app.

> . Simulate the app crash by looking for the process ID of the Mule app and kill it in your terminal by using a command like the following: `kill -9 <process-id>`. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Simulate an app crash by locating the process ID of the Mule app and killing it in your terminal by using a command like `kill -9 <process-id>`. +
```

> Because the Mule app crashes, the first listener flow gets disconnected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the Mule app crashes, the first listener flow is disconnected.
```

. Restart the Mule app. +
The MQTT broker retains the LWT message, and the second listener flow logs the LWT message that was configured in the first listener flow.

> === XML for Listening Messages Subscribed to a LWT Message Topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== XML for Listening Messages Subscribed to an LWT Message Topic
```
